doc: ug_thingy53: Improve user guide (#5596)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_thingy53.rst

> Connecting to Thingy:53 serial ports

Reviewer: Not related to any change in this PR, but I missed the TYPO in the original PR: please modify in line 14: IEEE 802.14.5 -> IEEE 802.**15.4**

Author: Fixed

#. Download and extract the latest Thingy:53 firmware package.
#. Check the :file:`CONTENTS.txt` file in the extracted folder for the location and names of the different firmware images.

.. _thingy53_programming_precompiled_images:

Quick programming of precompiled firmware images
================================================

> After downloading firmware updates, you can program the images directly onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer application available in nRF Connect for Desktop.
> The downloaded firmware update has a form of zip archive containing signed application binaries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After downloading firmware images, you can program them directly onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer application available in nRF Connect for Desktop.
The downloaded firmware image is a zip archive containing signed application binaries.
```

You can program the precompiled firmware image using one of the following ways:

> * Use :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.
```

| nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    The |NCS| samples and applications that are compatible with Thingy:53 follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.

Reviewer 3: OK, I see you followed the Thingy:91 user guide. We don't list samples and applications in such way in other UGs, so maybe merge this "samples and applications compatible with" section with the application guide one, for example as a sub-section or simply a list there.

>    The |NCS| samples and applications that are compatible with Thingy:53 follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.

Author: Changed to sub-section

   This is needed, because the samples must use consistent partition map and bootloader configuration.

|NCS| by default uses :ref:`ug_multi_image` for Thingy:53.
Because of this, when you choose ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` when building a sample or application that is compatible with Thingy:53, you will generate firmware for both the application core and network core:

* The applicaton core firmware consists of MCUboot bootloader and an application image.
* The network core firmware consists of network core bootloader (B0n) and application firmware of the network core.

The build process generates firmware in two formats:

> * HEX file (:file:`merged_domains.hex`) - Used with an external debug probe.

Author: Changed to Intel Hex, it describes file format better

| nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::
   The |NCS| samples and applications that are compatible with Thingy:53 follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.

>    This is needed, because the samples must, among others, use consistent partition map and bootloader configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This is needed, because the samples must use consistent partition map and bootloader configuration.
```
Unnecessary and adds too many commas to the line.

|NCS| by default uses :ref:`ug_multi_image` for Thingy:53.

> Because of this, if you choose ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` when building a sample or application that is compatible with Thingy:53, you will generate firmware for both the application core and network core:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of this, when you choose ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` when building a sample or application that is compatible with Thingy:53, you will generate firmware for both the application core and network core:
```
We are instructing them to use it. Not wondering if they might end up using it.

* The applicaton core firmware consists of MCUboot bootloader and an application image.
* The network core firmware consists of network core bootloader (B0n) and application firmware of the network core.

> The build process results in generating firmware in two formats:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The build process generates firmware in two formats:
```

* HEX file (:file:`merged_domains.hex`) - Used with an external debug probe.
  The HEX file contains bootloaders and applications for both cores.
* BIN files (:file:`app_update.bin`, :file:`net_core_app_update.bin`), containing signed application firmwares for the application and network core, respectively.
  For convenience, the BIN files are bundled in :file:`dfu_application.zip` together with manifest that describes them.

>   The BIN files can be used to update application firmware for both cores, with either MCUboot serial recovery or OTA DFU using Bluetooth LE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The BIN files or the combined ZIP archive can be used to update application firmware for both cores, with either MCUboot serial recovery or OTA DFU using Bluetooth LE.
```

| :file:`net_core_app_update.bin` | MCUboot compatible network core update          | Using the built-in bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer           |
+---------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`dfu_application.zip`     | MCUboot compatible update images for both cores | Using nRF Programmer for Android and iOS or nRF Connect Programmer |
+---------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.
If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program compatible samples to the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.

.. note::
   If you are using an external debug probe, you do not need to use applications that follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.

>    In that case you can flash the Thingy:53 in a similar way as nRF53 DK with only an application image and remove bootloader, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for details.
>    Keep in mind that you will need to flash an sample or application compatible with Thingy:53 application guide to bring back serial recovery and DFU OTA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In that case, you can flash the Thingy:53 in a similar way as nRF53 DK, with only an application image and without a bootloader, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for details.
   Keep in mind that you will need to flash a sample or application compatible with the application guide to bring back serial recovery and DFU OTA.
```

   #. From the menu, select :guilabel:`Build` > :guilabel:`Build Solution`.
      This builds the project.

>    The output of the build with the merged Intel Hex file containing the application, the net core image and the bootloaders is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

Author: There is a single file, is the change needed then ?

>    The output of the build with the merged Intel Hex file containing the application, the net core image and the bootloaders is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

Author: I added missing comma

>    The output of the build with the merged Intel Hex file containing the application, the net core image and the bootloaders is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

Reviewer 4: Ah, in that case, to make it more clear:
The output of the build with the merged Intel Hex file, containing the application, the net core image, and the bootloaders, is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

>    The output of the build with the merged Intel Hex file containing the application, the net core image and the bootloaders is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

Author: applied

   #. Select :guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Download zephyr/merged.hex` to program the sample or application onto Thingy:53.
   #. The device will reset and run the programmed sample or application.

.. warning::
   Programming :file:`merged.hex` file updates only the application core.

>    If you need to update also the network core, you must follow additional steps described in :ref:`ug_nrf5340`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   If you also need to update the network core, you must follow additional steps described in :ref:`ug_nrf5340`.
```

In addition to the configurations mentioned above, an application compatible with Thingy:53 is expected to enable the following features:

* USB CDC ACM as backend for logger.
  The logs are provided via USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.

  Most of the Thingy:53-compatible applications and samples use only a single instance of USB CDC ACM that works as logger's backend.
  No other USB classes are used.
  These samples can share common USB product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
  If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use dedicated product name, vendor ID, and product ID.

* DFU over-the-air via Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.
  The application acts as GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update for both application and network core.
  The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.
  The application supports Simple Management Protocol (SMP) handlers related to:

  * Image management
  * Operating System (OS) management -- used to reboot device after firmware upload is complete.

>   * Erasing settings partition -- needed to ensure that a new application would not be booted with incompatible content of settings partition that was written by the previous application.

Reviewer 5: Erasing settings partition -- needed to ensure that a new application would not be booted with incompatible content in the settings partition that was written by the previous application.

Author: changed

         west flash

   The device resets and runs the programmed sample or application.

.. _thingy53_app_update:

Updating firmware image
=======================

> The firmware on Thingy:53 can be programmed using an external debug probe and 10-pin JTAG cable, as described in sections related to building in various environments.

Reviewer 6: Maybe just link to a section instead of mentioning it like that:
"as described in sections related to building in various environments" ?

Reviewer 2: This is referring to the Building and programmin with SEGGER", "...with Visual Studio Code", and "...on the command line" just above this section. Something like this could work:
```suggestion
The firmware on Thingy:53 can be programmed using an external debug probe and 10-pin JTAG cable, as described in the sections above for building in different environments.
```

You can also update applications running on both network and application core using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and `nRF Connect Programmer`_ or the nRF Programmer for Android or iOS.
Prebuilt application images can also be updated that way.
See subsections below for details about updating firmware image.

Firmware update using external debug probe
------------------------------------------

If you are using an external debug probe, such as the nRF5340 DK, or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33, you do not have to use applications that follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.
In that case, you can program the Thingy:53 in a similar way as nRF53 DK.
See :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for details.

> Keep in mind that you will need to program an sample or application compatible with Thingy:53 application guide to bring back serial recovery and DFU OTA.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that you will need to program a sample or application compatible with Thingy:53 application guide to bring back serial recovery and DFU OTA.
```

Enabling DFU and MCUboot requires consistency in configuration of the samples and applications.

For a sample or application to be compatible with Thingy:53, the application must comply with the following configuration:

Partition manager configuration
  Thingy:53 compatible samples use :ref:`partition_manager` to define memory partitions.
  To ensure that partition layout does not change between builds, the sample must use static partition layout that is the same as the one in Thingy:53-compatible samples in the |NCS|.
  The memory layout must stay consistent, so that MCUboot can perform proper image updates and clean up the settings storage partitions.

  The PCD SRAM partition is locked by the MCUboot bootloader to prevent the application from modifying the network core firmware.
  Trying to access data on this partition results in an ARM fault.

MCUBoot bootloader
  The sample must enable MCUboot bootloader and use the same configuration of the bootloader as all of the Thingy:53-compatible samples in the |NCS|.
  This is needed to let MCUBoot use the sample as an image update.

> In addition to the configurations mentioned above, an Thingy:53 compatible application should enable:
> 
> * Use USB CDC ACM as backend for logger.
>   The logs are provided via USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.
> 
>   Most of the Thingy:53-compatible applications and samples use only a single instance of USB CDC ACM that works as logger's backend.
>   No other USB classes are used.
>   These samples can share common USB product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
>   If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use dedicated product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
> 
> * Enable DFU over-the-air via Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.
>   The sample acts as GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update.
>   The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the configurations mentioned above, an application compatible with Thingy:53 compatible application is expected to enable the following features:

* USB CDC ACM as backend for logger.
  The logs are provided via USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.

  Most of the Thingy:53-compatible applications and samples use only a single instance of USB CDC ACM that works as logger's backend.
  No other USB classes are used.
  These samples can share common USB product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
  If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use dedicated product name, vendor ID, and product ID.

* DFU over-the-air via Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.
  The sample acts as GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update.
  The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.
```
There is grammar issue with the formatting of the list introduction.

.. tip::
   To use your application with Thingy:53 preprogrammed bootloader, you only must set proper configuration of Partition Manager and MCUboot.
   Other mentioned features are nice to have, but they are not mandatory.

>    All of the Thingy:53-compatible applications in the |NCS| also support the mentioned the additional features.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   All of the Thingy:53-compatible applications in the |NCS| also support the mentioned additional features.
```
?

Author: Typo. Thanks :)

Firmware update using external debug probe
------------------------------------------

If you are using an external debug probe, such as the nRF5340 DK, or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33, you do not have to use applications that follow the :ref:`thingy53_app_guide`.
In that case you can flash the Thingy:53 in a similar way as nRF53 DK, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340` for details.
Keep in mind that you will need to flash an sample or application compatible with Thingy:53 application guide to bring back serial recovery and DFU OTA.

.. _thingy53_app_update_mcuboot:

Firmware update using MCUboot bootloader
----------------------------------------

The Thingy:53-compatible samples and applications use MCUboot bootloader than can be used to update firmware.
This method uses signed binary files :file:`app_update.bin` and :file:`net_core_app_update.bin` (or :file:`dfu_application.zip`).
You can program the precompiled firmware image using one of the following ways:

* Use the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.
  In this scenario Thingy is connected directly to your PC through USB.

> * Update the firmware over-the-air (OTA) using Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Programmer mobile application for Android or iOS.

Reviewer 3: Bluetooth LE? Also, here we again mention nRF Programmer mobile, which would need links to the stores.

  To use this method, the application that is currently flashed on Thingy:53 must support it.
  All precompiled images support OTA using Bluetooth.

See `Updating Nordic Thingy:53 firmware`_ for the detailed procedures on how to program a Thingy:53 using nRF Connect Programmer or the nRF Programmer for Android or iOS.

.. _thingy53_app_guide:

Thingy:53 application guide
***************************

Thingy:53 does not have a built-in J-Link debug IC.
Because of that, the samples and applications that are compatible with Thingy:53 by default use MCUboot bootloader with serial recovery support.
Enabling DFU and MCUboot requires consistency in configuration of the samples and applications.

For a  sample or application to be compatible with Thingy:53, the application must comply with the following configuration:

> * Partition manager configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Partition manager configuration
```
This will highlight this entry. Or use a period or dash at the end of the line. Otherwise the lines will appear one after another and you'll end up with "Partition manager configuration Thingy:53 compatible samples use ..."

  Thingy:53 compatible samples use :ref:`partition_manager` to define memory partitions.

>   To ensure that partition layout does not change between builds, a sample must use static partition layout that is the same as the one in Thingy:53-compatible samples in NCS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  To ensure that partition layout does not change between builds, the sample must use static partition layout that is the same as the one in Thingy:53-compatible samples in the |NCS|.
```

  The memory layout must stay consistent, so that MCUboot can perform proper image updates and clean up the settings storage partitions.

  The PCD SRAM partition is locked by the MCUboot bootloader to prevent the application from modifying the network core firmware.
  Trying to access data on this partition results in an ARM fault.

> * MCUBoot bootloader

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MCUBoot bootloader
```
See edit to 311.

>   The sample must enable MCUboot bootloader and use the same configuration of the bootloader as all of the Thingy:53-compatible samples in |NCS|.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The sample must enable MCUboot bootloader and use the same configuration of the bootloader as all of the Thingy:53-compatible samples in the |NCS|.
```
Global edit for `the` with `|NCS|`.

  This is needed to let MCUBoot use the sample as an image update.

> In addition to the configurations mentioned above, all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples in |NCS|:

Reviewer 3: Not sure how to read this and the following bullets because of the line 336. Is this something I have to make sure to implement? If so, we need `... compatible samples in the |NCS| must meet the following requirements:` or similar.
But if this is not necessary, why would I have to read the examples of implementation, as required in line 336?

Author: This is information about convention for Thingy:53-compatible samples in NCS. All of them provide logs over USB CDC ACM and enable DFU over BLE SMP (for convenience of end user). 
It's not necessary to enable these features to boot application with Thingy's preprogrammed MCUboot bootloader, so the application without these features could still be used as an update image. Using such application, user will not be able to DFU over BLE SMP to other application while current application is running (MCUboot's serial recovery will have to be used). The logs would not be accessible without additional external hardware too.

Reviewer 3: OK, then maybe list the samples and applications before this part? Also, maybe rephrase to:
`... all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples in the |NCS| use the following conventions:`
And then:
`All samples use ...`
`All samples enable ...`
And I would mention the information about the possibility to disable these features, though I don't understand now if they are enabled by default or not, because you write "it is not necessary to enable these features" :/

Author: I would prefer to have list after, so the complete description of Thingy:53-compatible sample would be in one place

* Use USB CDC ACM as backend for logger.
  The logs are provided via USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.

  Most of the Thingy:53-compatible applications and samples use only a single instance of USB CDC ACM that works as logger's backend.
  No other USB classes are used.

>   These samples can share common USB product name, vendor and product ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  These samples can share common USB product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
```

>   If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use dedicated product name, vendor and product ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If a sample supports additional USB classes or more than one instance of USB CDC ACM, it must use dedicated product name, vendor ID, and product ID.
```

* Enable DFU over-the-air via Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.
  The sample acts as GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update.
  The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

Refer to the source code of the samples and applications for examples of implementation.

Samples and applications compatible with Thingy:53
**************************************************

> In there are already samples and applications in |NCS| that comply with Thingy:53 application guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are already samples and applications in |NCS| that comply with Thingy:53 application guide.
```

         west flash

   The device resets and runs the programmed sample or application.

.. _thingy53_app_guide:

Thingy:53 application guide
***************************

Thingy:53 does not have a built-in J-Link debug IC.
Because of that, the samples and applications that are compatible with Thingy:53 by default use MCUboot bootloader with serial recovery support.
Enabling DFU and MCUboot requires consistency in configuration of the samples and applications.

> The samples and applications that comply with Thingy:53 aplication must comply with the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a  sample or application to be compatible with Thingy:53, the application must comply with the following configuration:
```

Also, neither of the below lists are steps that must be followed, so they can't be numbered lists. I recommend bullet points.

1. Partition manager configuration

>    Thingy:53 compatible samples use :ref:`partition manager` to define memory paritions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Thingy:53 compatible samples use :ref:`partition_manager` to define memory partitions.
```

>    To ensure that partition layout would not change between builds, sample must use static partition layout that is the same as for Thingy:53 compatible samples in NCS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To ensure that partition layout does not change between builds, a sample must use static partition layout that is the same as the one in Thingy:53-compatible samples in NCS.
```

>    The FLASH layout consistency is required to allow MCUboot to perform proper image updates and settings storage partition erase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The memory layout must stay consistent, so that MCUboot can perform proper image updates and clean up the settings storage partitions.
```

>    The PCD SRAM partition is locked by the MCUboot bootloader to prevent application from modifying network core firmware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The PCD SRAM partition is locked by the MCUboot bootloader to prevent the application from modifying the network core firmware.
```

   Trying to access data on this partition results in an ARM fault.
#. MCUBoot bootloader

>    The sample must enable MCUboot bootloader and use the same configuration of the bootloader as all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples in |NCS|.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The sample must enable MCUboot bootloader and use the same configuration of the bootloader as all of the Thingy:53-compatible samples in |NCS|.
```

   This is needed to let MCUBoot use the sample as an image update.

> Apart from mentioned options all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples in |NCS|:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the configurations mentioned above, all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples in |NCS|:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Again, the below can't be a numbered list.

1. Use USB CDC ACM as backend for logger.
   The logs are provided via USB CDC ACM to allow accessing them without additional hardware.
2. Enable DFU over-the-air via Simple Management Protocol over Bluetooth.

>    The sample acts as GATT server and allow the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The sample acts as GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central to perform the firmware update.
```

   The Bluetooth configuration is updated to allow quick DFU data transfer.

> Refer to the source code of the samples and applications for example of implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the source code of the samples and applications for examples of implementation.
```

Samples and applications compatible with Thingy:53
**************************************************

> In |NCS| there are already samples and applications that comply with Thingy:53 application guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In there are already samples and applications in |NCS| that comply with Thingy:53 application guide.
```
